#How to call C programs from Java with JNI
The process can be broken down into 6 main steps.
1. Write the Java code
2. Compile Java code
3. Generate the C header file
4. Write the implementation of the header file
5. Compile a shared library folder
6. Execute the Java program

<br>

##Write the Java Code
First, we must make the java class using native methods
```java
public class Sample1
{
	public native int intMethod(int n);
	public static void main(String[] args)
	{
		System.loadLibrary("Sample1");
		Sample1 sample = new Sample1();
		System.out.println(sample.intMethod(2));
	}
}
```
###What's this??
Calm down! It's a simple class declaring and using a native method. The first noteworthy line is the declaration:
```java
public native int intMethod(int n);
```
This should look a lot like a normal method declaration in java without a body. This is useful because it's familiar! You can imagine that we're just writing the definition for this header somewhere else. Where exactly 'else' is is the key part of this whole thing. We're defining it in C! Isn't that crazy?

The second part to this is actually using the function. The native funciton *should* be used in a static context to prevent the library from being loaded more than once. If you think about it, it makes sense that a library is static. It's not like it's changing on you based on the state of the program. Although I suppose it could...

```java
System.loadLibrary("Sample1");
```
This line tells java to attempt to load the external library 'Sample1' On windows, this refers to a .DLL and on Linux this is an .SO file.  More on this later when we compile our library.

```java
Sample1 sample = new Sample1();
```
Create an instance of our library. Everything is an object in java after all...
```java
System.out.println(sample.intMethod(2));
```
Lastly, we call our library and print the result

##Compile the Java Code
I hope you don't find this part too hard. `javac [filename]` should do the trick.

## Generate the C Header File
Next we will use javac to generate a header file for us to write our java functions in. We use the javac command to accomplish this
`javac -h [destination] [source file] `
Breaking this down, we call javac with the -h option. This tells javac that we wish to create a C header file, destination is where the header file will be written, and source is the java file that uses native code, like the one we just wrote.
